In the last lecture, you learned about the traditional deployment models of on premises and Kullu or
colocation facilities in this lecture.
I'll explain what cloud computing is and compared it with the traditional deployment models.
So there's a lot of confusion about exactly what cloud computing is.
Beginners tend to describe it as I.T. services, which are located somewhere else.
And this somewhere else is just some vague notion that it's not inside the company building.
But Cuillo facilities are off premises and they are not.
Cloud and private cloud deployments are often on premises.
So that definition view doesn't work.
We need a better one.
And there is a de facto definition of what cloud computing is.
It comes from the NIST, which is the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
So we came up with this definition in 2011, cloud computing as a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient
On-Demand Network access to our shared pool of configurable computing resources, for example, network
servers, storage applications and services that can be rapidly provisioned and unleashed with minimal
management effort or service provider interaction.
OK, I didn't say it was a very clear cut definition, but that is the standard definition of what cloud
computing is.
Luckily, in the same document, the Nasty released this definition.
They also specified the characteristics of cloud computing and they really nailed down what cloud computing
is.
But just like the definition is wrong, there is more than one characteristic that really defines cloud
computing.
The first one is on demand self-service.
Again, from the NIST, a consumer can unilaterally prevision computing capabilities such as server
time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with each service
provider.
So this is very different than what you see with an on premises or a cool solution with most traditional
solutions.
Whenever a department wants a new server, the raise of ticket request with the IT department, and
then we go through that long process I described in the last lecture by ordering the server, getting
it right or getting it cabled the network server and storage team then have to configure everything
before the server goes live with cloud computing on demand self-service, where it does not require
individuals in the I.T. teams to put this thing together.
Normally it will use a really convenient guey front end, a Web based tool that users, whether it's
another company or maybe an internal department, if you're doing private cloud, can provision their
own services, such as servers.
And in the next lecture, I'll give you an example of that working.
The next characteristic is rapid elasticity capabilities can be elastically provisioned and released,
in some cases automatically to scale rapidly outward and inward, commensurate with demand to the consumer.
The capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be appropriated in
any quantity at any time.
So what they say is that you can think of it like an elastic band where you can pull apart and it will
stretch back again as well.
With elasticity, you can prevision the amount of resources that you require very quickly.
You can very quickly scale out when you need more and you can very quickly scale back in when you need
to flash and you only pay for what you're using at the time.
Next one is broadband network access to the first new characteristics, really their characteristics
of cloud, and it's very hard to do that with an on premises or Tarcoola solution, the broad network
access, really this applies to on premises and cool as well normally.
But for a service to be classified as a cloud service, it also has to meet this characteristic with
the characteristics.
It's not a case of a cloud service just has to meet one of those cloud service has to meet all of these
characteristics.
The broad network access, the capabilities are available over the network and accessed through standard
mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous, thicker, thin client platforms like mobile phones,
tablets, laptops and workstations with a cloud service as you'd be able to be accessed from anywhere
from the company's offices or from anywhere on the Internet as well, and from a variety of different
clients.
Next one is resource pooling the providers computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers
using a multitenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned
according to consumer demand.
So with cloud services.
Every customer or every internal department does not have their own separate dedicated hardware, the
hardware is shared and this brings the costs down because our shared hardware, you don't have to buy
separate hardware for everybody that is using it.
Usually it will be virtualize and only election only are in the.
I'll show you how the virtualization works.
Next one is measured service systems automatically control and optimized resource use by leveraging
our metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service, for example,
storage, processing, bandwidth, an active user accounts with a cloud service.
It's always going to be an operational expenditure.
It's going to be a recutting monthly fee.
And the cloud provider needs some way of measuring how much of it you're using as a customer so that
they can build you accordingly.
OK, that was it.
That was all of the characteristics that made a cloud service.
In the next lecture, I will show you an example of actually provisioning some services in the cloud
and you'll see these characteristics and option share their.